# tribefire 2.0 - 02/12/2020

## Announcements
In case you are still using cartridges: Cartridges always must be re-built against the release repository.

## General

* introduced TimeZoneless metadata and annotation to express dates that are without time zone by using the UTC zone as standardization
* introduced Potential<T,R> class in common-api to combine features known from JDKs Optional<T> with the ability to return error reasoning
* introduced com.braintribe.gm:reason-model that models chainable reasons that are another way to express errors that exceptions.
* A `StreamPipe` can now be closed explicitly in the cases when you can be sure that all its streams are already closed. Also the default size of in-memory-buffers is adapted to the total available memory.
* Previously the `SqlSource`, which is used to reference binary data in *JDBC* databases identified the blobs by its own `id`. As the multipurpose of this property can lead to bugs and configuration issues, there was a new property introduced: `blobId`. Backwards-compatibility is insured by a fallback to `id`, but the `blobId` property will be set explicitly for all SqlSources of an access in case it was detected to be missing from at least one entity.
* JavaScript handling is now backed by `GraalVM` instead of the long deprecated `Nashorn`, which was necessary to be able to support Java 14. This also changed some aspects of the interoperation APIs.
 * Fixed the query for existing user sessions in the JWT expert
* Added native support for ranges in SqlBinaryProcesso
* Allowing password to be encrypted in the OpenUserSession request (when the property passwordIsEncrypted is set to true) 
* The configuration of the threadpool used by the CheckBundlesProcessor has been fixed
* The CallbackRestProcessor now also sends the content encoding in the REST call to support UTF-8 content
* Reworked structure of mime extension properties file and updated list of mime-types
* @Initializer for an enum can be specified with just the enum constant name
* Replaced SqlBinaryProcessor Hibernate-based implementation with pure JDBC. This is much faster and cleaner now
* Custom Resource enrichers can be configured from a module for given mime-type

## Resource Streaming
The `/streaming` endpoint is now obsolete as all its features are now supported via our standard `/api/v1` REST endpoint. It can now be considered as deprecated and might be removed in later releases.

* The `POST` operation to upload resources is replaced by `/api/v1/upload` where the target access needs to be specified with the `domainId` query parameter.
* The `GET` operation to download a resource is replaced by `/api/v1/download` where the source access needs to be specified with the `domainId` query parameter and the respective resource with the `resource.id` query parameter.

There are also a few changes regarding the implementation of custom `BinaryProcessor`s and `ResourceEnricher`s. `BinaryRequest`s and the `EnrichResource` request are now only `AccessRequest`s for backwards compatibility reasons but should not be implemented by `AccessRequestProcessors` any more and are not responsible any more to query or persist `Resource` related entities in an access but only to handle the raw binary data of a `Resource`. In support of this, there are new binders that can bind respective deployables to standard `ServiceProcessor`s.

Following the same mindset, eventual resource enrichment capabilities in `BinaryProcessor`s should be extracted to dedicated `ResourceEnricher`s if necessary or simply removed if it can be handled by our standard enricher.

Further, for security reasons `BinaryRequest`s can now only be called by system sessions or admin users (with the `tf-admin` role).

More information about this topic can be found in our updated documentation.

## Platform Reflection
* Added more information about consumed memory (virtual size, resident set size)
* Errors while collecting parts of the Diagnostic Packages are also included in the package
* Updated the OSHI library from version 4.2.0 to 5.3.6

## Checks
* Made Check API more resilient: Name of `CheckBundle` and its `CheckBundleResult` is automatically determined if not set (based on check processor name)



## Tribefire ControlCenter / Explorer

* GME supporting the correct display of TimeZoneless dates
* AssemblyPanel performance improvements
* WebSocket support for external components

## VDE
* Introduced EvaluateRequest VD
* Adding support for asynchronous VD evaluation in GWT

## DCSA
* Made number of parallel threads configurable and based the default on the number of available DB connections in the connection pool

## JavaScript Artifact Support

* Turned all model enums in com.braintribe.gm and tribefire.cortex into EnumBase derived enums to have proper typescript generation for them beside the general advantages of them.
* added missing jsinterop markers in various pom.xml
* added missing js tag on dependencies in various pom.xml
* added missing JsType annotations on various API types
* consolidation of some typescript representations of the exposed APIs and models
* added model archetype property to pom.xml of all models in com.braintribe.gm and tribefire.cortex

## HibernateAccess

* Applying a minor customization of MS SQL dialects which map Strings for nvarchars (i.e. Unicode based varchars) to avoid deadlocks and improve performance
* ApplyManipulation attempted multiple times in case a deadlock is detected
* Improving MappingGenerator performance - using simple StringBuilder instead of velocity
* Fixing `localize` function implementation

### Bugfixes

* fixed JinniOptions singleton behavior in CLI argument decoding
* Artifacts `gwt-gm-core` and `gwt-gm-session-api` are libraries now.
* Processing MD annotations for Enums too.
* fixing output in case of a parallel build with ANT - supporting custom threads created within a task

## Tribefire Spreadsheet Extension

* introduced tribefire.extension.spreadsheet
* support for import XSLT, CSV
* metadata mapped conversions
* timezoneless and date clipping support
* parallel streamed processing to handle very large files
* validation and detailed problem report generation
* enriching of meta properties like row number and import package back link

## Tomcat
* Removed the default ciphers in the server configuration as this no longer works with TLS 1.2+1.3

## Known Issues

* Known issues above not marked with *Fixed with maintenance release Oct 24th 2018*.
* The Simple Properties panel in the graphical Modeler shows a checkbox for marking a type as abstract on Enum Types. Clicking this checkbox throws an error. 
* In the Process Designer, the indicator for selection or connection mode does not always display the right mode.
* In Modeler, the overlays for creating relations sometimes disappear.
* When deployment of an asset from Control Center fails, no error message is displayed.
* The standalone Modeler displays collections of simple properties as both simple properties and relations.
* The action bar in Control Center is too wide.