# tribefire 2.0 - 25/02/2020

## Announcements

* In case you are still using cartridges: Cartridges always must be re-built against the release repository.

## General
* New Service Call `GetAssets`: Returns a collection of assets based on the provided filter criteria of this request. See [GetAssets Documentation]( https://documentation.tribefire.com/tribefire.cortex.documentation/concepts-doc/features/platform_assets.html?searchText=get%20assets#getassets)
* Control Center Adaptions:
 * Added Checks and Modules menu items
 * Removed Action Processors menu item
 * Removed Generate Key Pair menu item from Cartridge section

## Setup Processing
* Fixed `CATALINA_PID` path to support portability.

## GmCore
* PersistenceGmSession - improved error messages.
* StaxMarshaller - fixed escaping problem in id attribute
* `com.braintribe.gm:time-model#1.0` has been extended with a number of valueable static and default methods that allow to conveniently parse, create, stringify, compare, add, convert the matters of time.
* Introduced annotation `@GwtIncompatible` in `com.braintribe.gm:gm-core-api`. Any class, method or field with this annotation is ignored by the GWT compiler.
* Fixed detection if zip is an exchange package to not check for the mimeType as the mime type detections seems to differ per OS.
* When the GmWebRpcClient receives a non-200 response, it will now throw the new HttpCommunicationException (a subclass of the previously used CommunicationException) to hold the actual status code.
* Added LoggingAsyncCallback, a default AsyncCallback handler that just logs the result or the failure. This is a convenience when you're not interested in the actual outcome of the async call.
* Fixed the MILLISECONDS_PER_YEAR property of Numbers as it overflowed with an Integer.
* Added convenience methods for parsing time spans in DateTools. This also supports larger time units (e.g., month, year).
* Increased the buffer size from 4k to 64k in IOTools.pump(InputStream,OutputStream)
* Added log preferences to the HttpException so that the issuer of the exception can set log levels. This is interpreted by the StandardExceptionHandler.
* Added support for re-authentication of stale user sessions in BasicRemoteGmSessionFactory.
* Introduced support for coalescing worker jobs (i.e., they will no be triggered a second time while it is still running).
* Fixed a missing stream close in the ToResourceWriter class.
* Added support for generic JKWS (JSON Web Key Set) provider.
* Added support for Amazon AWS JWT tokens (issued by AWS Cognito).
* Added Around-/Pre-/Post-ScriptProcessors for running scripts.
* DiagnosticPackage now contains setup assets information (as JSON), configuration folder, access data folder of cortex.
* About page has been extended to show information about messaging, leadership- and lock-manager.
* JDBC DCSA has been extended to keep the original filename and mime type of resources stored in BLOBs.
* Fixed a bug JdbcDcsaStorage where a rollback was tried even if there was no DB connection available.
* Added deletion of unused folders in FileSystemBinaryProcessor (when a Resource gets deleted).
* Setting the domainId of CortexRequest by default to 'cortex'.
* Increased the time interval the license is checked from 10min to once per day.
* AbstractDocument of the document-model now also extends HasAcl (as well as Attachment of the attachment-model).
* Fixed a bug that would assign leadership to a worker that already acted as a leader.
* Added support for re-authorization in streaming (in RemoteResourceAccessFactory).

## Wire
* WireContext
  * fixed contract lookup when contract is resolved via a parent WireContext
  * Added a way to build a WireContext based on multiple WireModules instead of only one

## SmoodAccess
* Normalized `queryProperty()` evaluation to be consistent with other accesses. As a result, conditions on entity properties are possible.
* `ORDER BY ` aggregate function now works.
* `GMQL` - changed order to `GROUP BY`, then `ORDER BY`.
* Support for `HAVING` clause.

## CSA
* (D)CSA bootstrap speed optimized.

## DDSA
Introduced new `ServiceRequestContext` - `HttpStatusCodeNotification` - which can enforce a custom HTTP response code when a service processor is called via our `/api/v1` REST endpoint.

## Tribefire ControlCenter / Explorer
* Implemented Open Action & GotoModelPath Command
* Added Outline metadata support within the WebReader
* Preparation for Inline support for collection properties
* Now using script editor directly within the GIMADialog
* Added custom params to metadata of document requests
* Bug Fixes, such as: correctly displaying icons in the home panel; fixed shift selection within the ThumbnailPanel; fixed blurry icons; fixed loading of absent data within the ThumbnailPanel; fixed buttons and other problems within the WebReader; fixed map related manipulation handling; fixed column sorting within the SelectionResultPanel; fixed cache for SelectList metadata; fixed scroll issues in WebReader's comments; fixed problem when uploading via dnd; fixed enum set and validation log within the GIMADialog.

## Modules
* `ResourceProcessingContract` introduced, `TransientResourcesContract` deprecated.
* Deployables in cortex that come via module initializers have their `module` assigned automatically, if possible.

## SecurityAspect
* ACL - also checking the single entity property on PropertyQuery.

## Hibernate Access
* Fixing bug when manually assigning partition.
* CompositeId - fixing entity deletion.
* Support for `HAVING` clause.

## Tribefire Core Functionalities

* AssemblyImport / CSA persistence - avoiding to track manipulations with no effect (ones assigning the already assigned value)
* Additionally to our Swagger#2.0 API exposure there are now similar endpoints that expose the same tribefire APIs as OpenAPI#3.0 documents. They can be found at `/openapi/document/` or `/openapi/ui` and are also linked to from the landing page. `tribefire.cortex:openapi-v3-setup` must be part of your setup to include this functionality, which anyway is part of the standard setup.

## Conversion Module

* Setting state 'pending' for sub-jobs so that the user knows the actual state.
* Activated callbacks even if percentage is still 0 so that the client gets the information that the job is still being processed.
* Added support for custom font folders that will be used by the Aspose library.
* Added word-fonts-upload REST endpoint to upload new fonts at runtime.
* Added REST endpoints word-fonts and word-fonts-substitution-add to get/manipulate font substitutions.
* Added service request to analyze PDF files in depth (number of pages, average objects per page, median object per page)
* Added possibility to provide targetExtension and targetMimetype and checking if they are actually matching.
* Fixed support for non-UTF-8 encoded text files.
* Reworked cloning of Jobs to improve multi-threading of the Jobs.
* Added support for creating a table of contents (TOC) from Word files and PDF files.
* Including TOC in the creation of documents.
* Fixed a thread starvation problem by introducing another threadpool for secondary tasks.
* Added support for excluding folders from cleanup.
* Deleting old files rather based on the last modified time instead of the creation time.

## Documents Module

* Reworked the retry mechanism to reflect on the Exception / reasonCode provided by the Conversion service.
* Fixed a bug that a Documents callback did not occur in the case of a Conversion error.
* Added possibility for the client to send an alternative username
* Worked on the Documents services for querying/manipulating attachments / highlights.

## Elastic Module

* Removed fuzzy search as it confuses people.
* Reworked fulltext search to search for all words if multiple words are provided (used to search for any word before).
* Added support for quotes to search for exact phrases.
* When the indexing workers are blocked for any reason, the fulltext aspect gets no longer blocked by a full indexing queue.

## Shiro Module

* Added support for AWS Cognito OAuth2.

## ActiveMQ Module

* Added access to low-level Broker service to get statistics in Health page.

## GCP Module

* Switched to the better Tika MIME type detector.

## AWS Module

* Switched to the better Tika MIME type detector.
* Using default region client if selected region is not supported directly.
* Added support for parallel uploads.
* Added support for multiple regions.
