# tribefire 2.0 - 08/11/2019

## General
Note that for this release cartridges must be re-built against the release repository. This will be fixed in the future versions of tribefire.

* Setup Access respects TribefireModules now.
* Cleaned up asset test-artifacts and deprecates assets in `tribefire.extension.setup` group

## Setup Processing
### Command `setup-local-tomcat-platform`
* `packageBaseDir` defaults to `installationPath/package` now instead of Java's temp directory with a subfolder `package`.
* For consistency reasons, term `master` turned into `tribefire-master`. You can find this term in the resulting package from `package-platform-setup`. Also, the master container within `packaged-platform-setup.json` is called **tribefire-master** now.

## Jinni
* Jinni now fails in case `--exclusiveSettings` points to a non-existing path.
* You can pass parameters to `jinni-update.bat/sh` now the same way as you work with `bin/jinni.bat/sh`
(e.g.: `jinni-update : options --exclusiveSettings /path/settings.xml`).
* Internal usages of `Malaclypse` now fail if a dependency cannot be resolved, rather than just log the information and continue.
* Fixing `jinni-update.sh`, if only anybody used it...

### Templates

Deprecated requests from `com.braintribe.devrock.templates` group are removed:

* `create-common-artifact` (use `create-common` instead)
* `create-gm-api-artifact` (use `create-gm-api` instead)
* `create-integration-test-artifact` (use `create-integration-test` instead)
* `create-library-artifact` (use `create-library` instead)
* `create-parent-artifact` (use `create-parent` instead)
* `create-template-artifact` (use `create-template` instead)
* `create-unit-test-artifact` (use `create-unit-test` instead)

## GmCore
* Introduced marker interface `ModelSkeletonCompatible` to mark metadata which can be placed on model elements of a skeleton.
* SMOOD robustness improved (related to index updating and diamond hierarchy - super unlikely to have ever happened, but still).
* Introducing `ResourceWriterBuilder`, a `WriterBuilder<Resource>` implementation based on `StreamPipes`. See `TransientResourcesContract#resourceBuilder()`.
* ITW now supports the `gm.ownCl` system property, which instructs the ITW to load all generated classes with it's own class-loader. No more `Jinni` warnings with Java 9+.

## CSA
* `ResetCollaborativePersistence` added.
* `GMML` parser error handling re-worked.
* `GetCollaborativeInitializationIssues` added.
* Default configuration for CSA access now reads the persisted data leniently, tracks the errors, and a summary of all errors is available via `GetCollaborativeInitializationIssues` request.

## DDSA
No updates.

## Tribefire ControlCenter / Explorer
* General BugFixing and styling improvements.
* Reworked and improved AssemblyPanel (AP) and ThumbnailPanel (TP) selection handling.
* Improved Profilling Handling.
* Reworked and improved GIMA styling and overall operation.
* Improved possibility for style customization by exporting new CSS style names.
* Added support for files DnD.
* Added support for custom Open Actions.
* Improved Resources information display.
* Improved handling of template actions for cases where only one variable exists.
* Improved file upload handling (with the possibility to cancel).
* Added a way to make properties have a list of possible values to be used in the client.
* Added validation within TemplateGIMA.
* Improved performance when using query actions.
* Prepared initial support for the AutoCommit feature.
* Enabled dynamic configuration of application favIcon and title.

## Modules
* Hardwired binding re-worked (heavily improved / simplified).
* Adding lifecycle methods for modules (`onBeforeBindnig`, `onAfterBindnig`).
* Module can declare `forbiddenDeps`, patters where matching artifacts from other modules cannot be promoted to the main classpath (and thus become visible from the module's class-loader).

## Hibernate Access
* Tests - base implementation using mocked sessionFactories/sessions/transactions to allow fast cleanup between tests + basic tests added.
* Fixing support for multiple `partitions`.
* Bugfixes for `CompositeId`.
* Improved support for `entitySignature` function.

## Tribefire Core Functionalities
* Diagnostic package gets encrypted now for security reasons (also obfuscating properties that might contain confidential information).
* Platform Reflection has been extended with installed Fonts (for Conversion diagnostics).
* Execution Persistence Refactoring, including clean-up functionality.

## New Runtime Properties
The following runtime properties were added in this release:

| Property           | Description      | Default Value     |
| :------------- | :----     | :----      |
TRIBEFIRE_RUNTIME_OFFER_STAYSIGNED | When this is set to true, the login dialog will offer an option to stay signed-in after a browser restart. If set to false, the user session will always be closed when the browser is closed. This is achieved by using a session cookie that stores the user's session ID until the browser is closed. | `true`
TRIBEFIRE_IS_CLUSTERED | Indicates whether or not this node is part of a cluster. | `false`
