# tribefire 2.0 - 27/03/2019

## Announcements

Note that for this release cartridges **must** be re-built against the release repository.
This will be fixed in the future versions of tribefire (with introduction of modules).

## Jinni

* __New commands (requests)__:
  * `get-asset-dependencies`
  * `history`
  * `alias`
  * `update-jinni`
  * `create-artifact`
  * `create-artifact-template`
  * `create-asset-aggregator-asset`
  * `create-cartridge`
  * `create-command-artifact`
  * `create-common-artifact`
  * `create-container-projection-asset`
  * `create-custom-cartridge-asset`
  * `create-gm-api-artifact`
  * `create-group`
  * `create-integration-test-artifact`
  * `create-library-artifact`
  * `create-manipulation-priming-asset`
  * `create-markdown-documentation-asset`
  * `create-markdown-documentation-config-asset`
  * `create-model-priming-asset`
  * `create-parent-artifact`
  * `create-plugin-priming-asset`
  * `create-project`
  * `create-resource-priming-asset`
  * `create-runtime-properties-asset`
  * `create-script-priming-asset`
  * `create-tribefire-runtime-manifest`
  * `create-unit-test-artifact`

* Charset encoding: the charset of the protocol output can be controlled with the jinni option `protocolOutput` in case your console is mapped to a codepage.
* Marshalling: the jinni option `responseMimeType` response allows to select the marshaller that is used to output the response which a request has returned. Currently the following marshallers are supported:
  * `text/yaml`
  * `application/x-yaml`
  * `text/xml`
  * `gm/bin`
  * `gm/jse`
  * `gm/man`

## GmCore

* Reduced the default DB connection pool size of 20 fixed connections to a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 3 connections.
* Introcuded type `Neutral` (service-api-model) which can be returned by your respective eval and process methods.
* Introduced UniversalMetaData and its respective Annotations:
  * `PositionalArguments`
  * `Alias`

### Security

* introduced `access-control-model` to manage and apply role based permissions for operations on instance level
* access control support in SecurityAspect

> For more information, see [Access Control](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/access_control.md) and [Using Access Control](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:tutorials-doc/control-center/using_access_control.md).

## HTTP Transport

* Improved strategy of stale connection detection/handling in StaleAwareHttpRequestRetryHandler

## Platform Assets

### PluginPriming aka. Initializer

* `WireSupportedInitializer.initializerId()` is deprecated and will be removed in the nearer future. Please ensure that the initializer contains a respective `WireModule` as the name of the `WireModule` replaces the functionality of the `initializerId` (e.g. globalId generation).
* New feature `AbstractInitializerSpace.importEntities(T)` which enables to import entities into the initializer’s session. This is required in case entities cannot be created on the session directly (e.g. Templates, TC-Builder, EntityQueryBuilder, SelectQueryBuilder)
Example:

```java
TC.create().typeCondition(TypeConditions.isAssignableTo(Company.T)).done()
```

Proper `globalId` management is ensured.

* globalId pattern: `wire://WireModuleSimpleName||initializerId/WireSpace/managedInstance` (whereas initializerId will be replaced by WireModuleSimpleName completely in the nearer future).
* Workbench: New artifact `tribefire.cortex.assets:tribefire-default-workbench-initializer` provides default workbench configuration as known from the control-center actions “Setup Workbench” and “Configure Workbench”.
* Workbench: In case you want to apply the grayish-blue-style, depend on new artifact `tribefire.cortex.assets:tribefire-grayish-blue-style-initializer`.
* Introduced annotation `@InstanceLookup`. This annotation marks a Wire contract indicating that it contains managed instances to be looked up instead of being created. An example can be found in `DemoWorkbenchInitializerResourceContract`.
* New artifact `com.braintribe.gm:persistence-initializer-provided-default-deps`. Depend on this and remove all other dependencies which are being provided by this artifact from your initializer’s dependencies.

## Templates

* New artifact `com.braintribe.gm:template-building`. An example can be found in `DemoWorkbenchInitializerSpace.getEmployeesByGenderAsNotificationsTemplate()`
* Artifact `com.braintribe.gm:persistence-initializer-support` provides a new Wire contract (`CoreInstancesContract`) for well-known core instances. They can be used by depending on `CoreInstancesWireModule` in the respective initializer.
Everbody can contribute to this contract and extend it with required core instances: `com.braintribe.gm.persistence.initializer.support.integrity.wire.contract.CoreInstancesContract`. Example can be found in `DemoCartridgeInitializer.initializeModels(...)`.

## Demo Setup

* The workbench comes as initializer now. See `tribefire.extension.demo:tribefire-demo-workbench-initializer` which shows how to use templates, import of entities, depending on tribefire-grayish-blue-style-initializer and the new initializer structure at all.

* `tribefire.extension.demo:tribefire-demo-cartridge-initializer` follows the latest initializer architecture.

## DDSA

### Unstructured Data Support

* CallGmSession/CallResource deprecation
* Introduction of TransientSource and its handling in RPC

### DDRA/REST

* Introduced new endpoint parameters:
  * `responseContentType`: override of response Content-Type header
  * `responseFileName`: influencing response Content-Disposition;filename header to influence file-name defaulting for downloads and browser plugins
  * `saveLocally`: forces browser to download files instead of interpreting them
