# tribefire 2.0 - 27/09/2018

With Tribefire 2.0 release, two big paradigm shifts took place.

In 1.1, there was a strong focus on persistence, with accesses providing fully fledged integration of third-party data sources. Although accesses are still around, we recommend a much more lightweight way of integrating data sources via **DDSA-based services**, allowing quick, normalized implementations not only for integration purposes, but for any computing functionality.

Another important addition to Tribefire 2.0 are the **Platform Assets**, taking the **everything-is-a-model** approach one step further, and acting as reusable building blocks for tribefire runtimes.

See the rest of this document for an overview of the highlights.

## DDSA
DDSA stands for **Denotation-driven Service Architecture**. Via DDSA, you can implement and (re-)use modeled services, bound to the executing expert at calltime. You can also send, retrieve, and process structured and unstructured data. Services allow to apply aspects to realize cross cutting concerns, thus providing context sensitive dynamic behavior. They are described and triggered by polymorphic, evaluable entity types, and therefore provide **Function-as-a-Service** (FaaS) in a consistent, normalized way.

* [DDSA](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/ddsa.md)

## Wire IOC
Wire is Braintribe's tool for inversion of control (IOC). Built on a very small footprint, it uses Java as a flexible and direct way of coding dependency injection. Therefore, it allows a level of complexity enabling the use of loops and if-conditions using normal Java code.

* [Wire](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/wire/wire.md)

## REST 2.0
With the REST API 2.0 we introduced three new REST endpoints. Two endpoints provide out-of-the-box CRUD calls for Entities and Properties and a third one a service API for DDSA-based services. All endpoints are provided in a standard-conform way, so Tribefire-specific knowledge is not required anymore for UI developers.

* [REST v2](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:api-doc/REST-v2/rest_v2_introduction.md)

## Swagger Integration
Based on the new REST API, Tribefire now comes with automatically created Swagger-UIs for each Access or service domain, which can directly be accessed from the Tribefire Landing page. Furthermore, we now support now the automated model creation based on a given Swagger file or URL.

* [Swagger](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:api-doc/REST-v2/using_swagger_ui.md)

## tribefire.js
With `tribefire.js`, Tribefire provides a library allowing you to use tribeﬁre functionality through JavaScript in a native way. Using `tribefire.js`, you can easily implement HTML5 applications with active tribeﬁre objects, and consume the tribeﬁre core Java API.

## Improved Metamodel
With Tribefire 2.0, we introduce a new Metamodel, which improves the model re-use by declaring dependencies to other models, instead of merging them. This provides a separation of concerns, providing more flexibility and better version handling.

* [Metamodel](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/platform-models/metamodel.md)

## Platform Assets
Platform Assets are the building blocks for your Tribefire runtime instance. They allow the provision and assembly of tribefire models, functionality, configuration, documentation, and more. With Platform Assets, you wire all required elements for a Tribefire runtime installation by declared dependencies among them. This way, they allow you to set up Tribefire in an incremental and reproducible way for different target environments.

* [Platform Assets](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/platform_assets.md)

## Jinni CLI
Tribefire now comes with a new command line tool **Jinni**, providing a convenient way to create Tribefire setups based on Platform Assets.

* [Quick Installation](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:development-environment-doc/quick_installation_devops.md)
* [Setting Up Environment for Platform Assets](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:tutorials-doc/platform-assets/setting_up_platform_assets.md)

## Docker and Cloud
Tribefire deployment has been simplified and standardized, and is now based on **Docker** and **Kubernetes**. This is now the recommended way to deploy and run Tribefire, both on-premise and in the cloud. Docker images are built using Jinni.

## Health Checks
The newly introduced health checks are an important system operation tool. They provide service calls, performing sanity checks for Tribefire itself, as well as the attached cartridges. Cartridge developers can implement this service type to perform any specific call providing specific sanity information.

* [Health Check](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/monitoring/health_check.md)

## About Page
In addition to the health-checks, Tribefire now comes with an **About** page, providing system information about a Tribefire runtime environment (single instance or a cluster). It shows all running processes and those threads that consume the most processing power. It also provides the creation and download of diagnostic reports.

* [About](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/monitoring/about.md)

## Collaborative SMOOD Access
With the **Collaborative SMOOD Access**, we created an additional method for our in-memory SMOOD database to persist its data. Instead of writing an XML file representing the whole data assembly, the Collaborative SMOOD Access persists data in an incremental way by writing manipulation instructions in the newly introduced **GMML** (Generic Model Manipulation Language). The Access works with stages, which can be added, combined, removed, and exchanged, thus providing reproducibility and re-use, which is the basis for the Platform Assets approach. It is also provided as a distributed Access, designed for a clustered environment.

* [Smart Memory Object-oriented Database](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/smood.md)

## Model Element Overrides
With Metadata, you can adapt the behavior of a model that's specific to certain use cases. To keep your models generic and reusable, Tribefire 2.0 comes with Overrides for entity types, enum types, properties and enum constants. Overrides allow to configure Metadata only for specific (depending) Models without changing the original, thus assuring their reusability.

* [Models](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/models/models.md)

## Metadata Editor
The Metadata Editor is an expressive UI component for the **Tribefire Control Center** designed for Metadata configuration. It provides a list view of types and properties and their Metadata configuration. Furthermore, it supports the Overrides feature, so that Overrides are created automatically for the case the configured element comes from, from a model dependency.

* [UI Elements](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/ui-clients/ui_elements.md)

## Cartridges
The implementation of custom functionality via Cartridges was rebuilt fundamentally. Architectural changes increase stability and performance, while optimizing the communication between Cartridges and tribefire-services. Spring IOC was replaced by the light-weight **Wire IOC** library. Developers can implement DDSA-based services and introduce their own custom extension points. Instead of synchronizing with tribefire-services, the Cartridge is now initialized and optionally set up via Platform Asset.

## Training
We understand how important it is to ramp up your knowledge quickly. This is why tribefire 2.0 has a dedicated self-service training portal where you can find all the resources you need to start working with tribefire. The trainings are aimed at everyone, be it someone who is just starting their journey with tribefire or seasoned front- or back-end developers who know the basics and want to see the latest tribefire features in action. Apart from the self-service portal, we provide comprehensive documentation and JavaDocs to further assist your learning.

* [Academy Portal](https://academy.tribefire.com)
* [Knowledge Base](https://questions.braintribe.com)

## Migration
If you want to reuse your 1.1 cartridges in tribefire 2.0, you must migrate them to platform assets.

### Known Issues
* REST calls expect a `long` value when you pass an `id` as part of the URL path. If you use a custom collaborative SMOOD access, for example in simulation mode, the `id` will be of type `String`. To notify the REST endpoint to expect a String, add the `TypeSpecification` metadata with the value `string` to the `id` property of the `GenericEntity` type in your model.
* The property `externalId` of Accesses has the metadata `unique`, which prevents the setting of identical IDs on Accesses. Currently, this applies only for the same type of Accesses but not for different ones. E.g. potentially there could be a Hibernate Accesses and a SMOOD Access with the same external ID, which causes problems when querying. Please make sure, to use different values for the external ID.
* If you create a custom `DDRA` mapping in Control Center some of the default values might not be reflected in the Swagger UI. This does not affect the actual REST endpoint. _-fixed with maintenance release Oct 24th 2018_
* The Metadata Editor sometimes displays properties or types twice or not at all. Via refresh-button the list is displayed normally again. _-fixed with maintenance release Oct 24th 2018_
* If MS SQL database schemas are not specified as default schema ("dbo") the database synchronization fails.
* The `@Initializer` annotation, which allows to specify an initial property value for the instantiation, won't be inherited to sub-types. If this behavior is required on a specific sub-type within the type hierarchy it has to be declared on that type.
* Currently, the `RegistryBoundConnectionPool` cannot be deployed. All other connection pools work as expected.
* If the environment variable `TRIBEFIRE_MANIPULATION_PRIMING` is defined in the file `tribefire.properties` it won't be recognized. If the environment variables are set via database (e.g. in cloud-scenarios) the variable `TRIBEFIRE_MANIPULATION_PRIMING` is read in normally.
* If you are using Maven and Eclipse, then (dependent on your setup and Maven repository settings) the Maven Eclipse plugin may show two errors saying that the libraries `com.sencha.gxt:gxt:4.0.2` and `com.xedge:gwt-jquery:2.0` are missing. These libraries are not needed for the Maven build though. On the command line Maven should just show warnings. Please just ignore these messages for now.
* The Tribefire Demo Cartridge hasn't been 100% migrated to Platform Assets yet. For example, the workbench still has some issues.

### Maintenance Release Oct 24th 2018

#### Known Issues

* Known issues above not marked with *Fixed with maintenance release Oct 24th 2018*.
* The Simple Properties panel in the graphical Modeler shows a checkbox for marking a type as abstract on Enum Types. Clicking this checkbox throws an error.
* In the Process Designer, the indicator for selection or connection mode does not always display the right mode.
* In Modeler, the overlays for creating relations sometimes disappear.
* When deployment of an asset from Control Center fails, no error message is displayed.
* The standalone Modeler displays collections of simple properties as both simple properties and relations.
* The action bar in Control Center is too wide.

### Maintenance Release Dec 15th 2018

#### Changes

* MIME type and MD5 can now be transported during resource upload
* Merge and Transfer and Close and Transfer asset transfer operations in GME now have the default value `deploy`
* LDAP cartridge is now an asset
* Password encryption support in LDAP initializer
* Deployables and Resource POST calls error message improvements
* Multiple JDBC driver version support in JDBC plugins
