Extendable Types                 | Description | Extends 
-----                            | ------- | ------
[`ServiceRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.ServiceRequest) | The most basic service request there is. Every other service request must inherit after it in a direct or an indirect way. Among other features like the possibility to add metadata, the `ServiceRequest` type provides the `eval()` method which is used to trigger a service.  | GenericEntity
[`AuthorizedRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.AuthorizedRequest) | Abstract type that provides convenience methods for handling sessions. | ServiceRequest  
[`AsynchronousRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.AsynchronousRequest) | Type that defines a request which is to be processed asynchronously on the server side. | `AuthorizedRequest`, `NonInterceptableRequest`, `GenericProcessingRequest`, `HasServiceRequest` 
[`CompositeRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.CompositeRequest) | Type that bundles multiple service requests to be processed. | `AuthorizedRequest`, `GenericProcessingRequest`, `HasServiceRequests`  
[`PushRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.PushRequest) | Type that allows you to send service requests to web clients over a Websocket endpoint. For more information, see [Push requests](asset://tribefire.cortex.documentation:concepts-doc/features/push_requests.md). | `AuthorizedRequest`, `GenericProcessingRequest`, `HasServiceRequest`  
[`InternalPushRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.InternalPushRequest) | When a push request is sent to a Tribefire instance, it is cloned into an internal push request and sent further to all other available instances of tribefire. `InternalPushRequest`s are not meant to be used from Control Center or Explorer. | `PushRequest` 
[`StandardRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.StandardRequest) | Type that provides authentication to a dispatchable request. | `DispatchableRequest`, `AuthorizedRequest`  
[`UnicastRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.UnicastRequest) | Type that allows you to send a request which is to be processed by another single instance. | `AuthorizedRequest`, `NonInterceptableRequest`, `GenericProcessingRequest`, `HasServiceRequest` 
[`DispatchableRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.DispatchableRequest) | Abstract type that allows you to send a request to another service.  | `ServiceRequest` 
[`DomainRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.DomainRequest) | Abstract type that provides convenience methods for handling domain IDs. | `ServiceRequest`  
[`GenericProcessingRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.GenericProcessingRequest) | Abstract type intended for the generic processing of other service requests. | `ServiceRequest`  
[`InterceptorRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.InterceptorRequest) | Type that intercepts other requests. | `GenericProcessingRequest`, `NonInterceptableRequest`  
[`MulticastRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.MulticastRequest) | Type that allows you to send a request which is to be processed by multiple other instances. | `AuthorizedRequest`, `NonInterceptableRequest`, `GenericProcessingRequest`, `HasServiceRequestion`  
[`NonInterceptableRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.NonInterceptableRequest) | Type that defines a request that cannot be intercepted by other services. | `ServiceRequest`  
[`PlatformRequest`](javadoc:com.braintribe.model.service.api.PlatformRequest) | Type that provides a hard-coded domain ID for `serviceDomain:platform`. | `ServiceRequest`  
